[Music] Good day, I'm Norman Wildberger. In this
video, we want to start looking at some of the
logical challenges that lie ahead of us when we
want to set up abstract algebra correctly. Now,
abstract algebra these days is not as fraught
with difficulties as modern analysis. Modern
analysis has, through and through, logical
difficulties—abstract algebra much less so, but
still, there are some very significant problems,
and today we want to start talking about that.
Okay, so modern abstract algebra is a 20th-century
development, more or less, and it explores
generalizations of rather concrete, explicit
arithmetical or algebraic structures. And the
logical weaknesses I would like to frame in terms
of sort of three different kinds or categories.
So the first one, the one that we're going to
talk about today, is this interaction between
definitions and specifications. It's a subtle
thing to try to enunciate because we don't have
a good language for dealing with these kinds of
problems, but I hope to give you lots of examples
of the difficulty with, first of all, being
precise about definitions and relating that
to what we actually do when we want to specify an
object that satisfies a given definition. Then,
after that, we are going to also talk about
the important challenges in going from the
finite kind of situation to a so-called infinite
situation without waffling. And then another very
key problem with modern abstract algebra that runs
through quite a lot of it is this over-reliance on
the so-called Fundamental Theorem of Algebra. That
wouldn't be a problem if the Fundamental Theorem
of Algebra was really a theorem, but in fact, it's
not—it's more of a dream. Okay, so we are going to
have to face up to the music that the Fundamental
Theorem of Algebra has serious problems and
how to reframe a lot of the dependence of
abstract algebra on the fundamental theorem.
Okay, so in today's video, though, we're going
to stick with this very interesting question of,
you know, how do we define abstract algebraic
objects, and what do we really mean by those
definitions with the phrases that we use,
with the framework that we have in place?
So to frame this first challenge that's
really centered on the role of definitions
in the subject, maybe it's good to introduce it
via this question by trying to identify what's
actually the difference between a description, a
definition, and a specification. These words are
all kind of overlapping, and they have some common
ground, but what exactly do they mean? And when
we define something, are we really defining it,
or are we rather describing it or specifying it?
And to put that question into maybe a more
explicit context, we could ask this other
kind of question about how do we actually define
or specify an algebraic structure for a computer?
So suppose we're interested in getting our
computer to understand what we mean by, say,
a group G. So we have an idea of what a
group G is. Suppose that we're actually
interested in programming a computer
to understand what a group is in the
same kind of way as we do—what do we have to
do? How do we have to frame the definition?
So this is a very good question for a number of
reasons. First of all, the role of computers,
of course, is increasing dramatically, quickly,
and it's going to play more and more a major
role in mathematics—that's something that we're
going to have to talk about in the future as well.
Another reason is that beginner students—students
who are just coming to the subject, who have not
any experience with abstract algebra, seeing these
definitions for the first time—in some sense,
they have similar problems as does a computer.
They don't have a prior history of intuitive
examples or prior familiarization
with things that they can lean on;
they really require the definitions to be
standalone and self-contained and precise
enough for them to be able to distinguish when
something is satisfying the definition and when
it's not. So there's some kind of parallel
between beginner students and computers. They
both do not have the kind of intuition that a more
experienced mathematician or student might have.
So in order to be as specific as possible,
let's consider the relatively simple example
of a group and how we might define what a group
is. Okay, so I'm going to give you a couple of
different possible definitions so that we get
some kind of idea about the possible scope of
possibilities for defining things. Okay, so we
want to know what is the definition of a group G,
how are we going to introduce that, and our first
answer to this, answer number one, is going to
be very strongly computer-oriented. So this is a
definition that we might give if we're aiming to
try to get our computer to understand what a group
is. Okay, so here's an example—here's a motivating
example. Okay, we see a multiplication table, and
the objects that are involved are the numbers 1,
2, 3, and 4, and this multiplication table
is a way of telling us that 2 * 3 is 1,
for example. Okay, so motivated by this, we'll
say that here's our definition: that a kroup G—k
now is a natural number greater than one, so
k is one or k is 2 or k is three or k is 39,
something like this—so a kroup G is a k
by k array from k with certain properties.
Okay, so before we get to the properties, what are
we talking about? We're going back to our earlier
discussion about arrays, and I remind you that an
array was something like a matrix but ultimately
was different. So an array, which we can think
of in this case as being this little 4x4 block,
this would be the k equal 4 case. So this is a
4x4 array, which we can think about as being a
list of lists—so that list followed by that list
followed by that list followed by that list. Okay,
that's what we think of when we think of a
4x4 array. Okay, and this array is called a G,
and in order for this array to be actually
a group or a kroup, we want it to have
certain properties that correspond to the
associativity, the existence of an identity,
and the existence of inverses—those are the
three main properties that define a group.
Okay, so we don't need to pay too much
attention here; I just give some kind of
official definition—it's actually not so
important for us, but let's do it anyway.
So the first one, which is a way of expressing
associativity, is to say that the group array G,
if we look at the indexes here, g l sub m,
and here n—so there's two indices that give
you the positions of the array. For example,
this thing here would be the 3,4 entry. Okay,
so the statement is that if you look at the
l,m entry and then followed by the n entry,
so now we're really taking the product of l *
m and then multiplying by n, that that should
be the same as the entry that you see when you
look under the l and m,n entry—so g sub l comma
g m,n. And that should be true for all l, m,
and n within our range from 1 to k. All right,
so that's some way of expressing associativity
in terms of the entries of this array.
The existence of the identity is perhaps easier.
We specify that g sub 1,a,l is equal to l,
and also g sub l comma 1 is equal to l for all l
between 1 and k. This is telling us that the one
object, the number one, is the multiplicative
identity in this group. So the numbers are all
one to k, and one is playing the role of
the identity. So 1 * 1 is 1, 1 * 2 is 2,
and so on. And similarly, 2 * 1 is 2, 3 * 1 is 3,
and so on. And this third property is telling us
about inverses—that for every index l between 1
and k, g l,m = 1 and g n comma l = 1 for some m
and some n in the range. That's expressing
the idea that along every row there's some
entry with the entry one, and along every column
there's some entry with the entry one, and that's
telling us that every element has a multiplicative
inverse, both a left inverse and a right inverse.
Okay, so we don't really need to worry too
much about the details—these are properties
of a particular k by k array. The
main point is that, first of all,
the array is a very specific array involving
just the numbers from 1 to k, and secondly,
that in principle the properties are very
cut and dried in that a computer could be
programmed relatively easily to check whether a
given k by k array from k was actually a group or
not. So this is a very computer-friendly
kind of definition of what a group is,
but it's not the only kind of possible
definition that we can think about.
Okay, now here is our second definition. It's
a little bit more human-friendly and perhaps a
little bit less computer-friendly. Let's call it
A2. So we're still going to define a kroup—k is a
natural number bigger than or equal to one—so
a kroup G is now a k ordered set, or oset S,
together with a k by k array, say capital
A, from S with certain properties. Okay,
the properties are going to reflect the usual
associativity, identity, and inverse properties
that a group needs. But in this setup, the
starting point is, first of all, an ordered
set. For example, perhaps the set is the numbers
1, 3, 7, and 9. Notice that we have commas here,
so our convention is that this is representing
an ordered set, and we have braces here—that
means that no repetition is allowed. So here's an
ordered set which happens to have four elements:
1, 3, 7, and 9. And together with that set,
here is an array that's basically telling us
the multiplication table that we want to give this
set. So it's an array, in this case a 4x4 array,
and it's from S, meaning that the entries
are all from our set and, okay, okay.
So officially, there's a list and another
list and another list and another list,
and these lists are telling us how we multiply by
1 and by 3, by 7, and by 9, following the order of
the points or the elements in our ordered set. So
we're using the fact that these things are ordered
to give a prescribed order in which we're placing
the rows or the columns of this array. So in fact,
this is the group that we have seen before.
This is U10—this is the set of numbers less
than 10 which are relatively prime to 10,
things that don't have common factors of 2
and 5. And this is the multiplication table mod
10. Okay, now, in terms of the properties, well,
this array should have certain properties.
It should have an associativity property,
which is the same kind of thing that I defined
previously, and one can define it in terms of
this array in sort of a similar kind of way.
And we want one of the elements of S to be the
identity—this is now a little bit different
from previously because we're not necessarily
having the numbers here be the numbers one through
something. In principle, this set S can be rather
arbitrary, so we need to specify that one of the
elements of S has the identity property. Now,
in this case, it happens to be the number one, but
we don't need to have the number one in our set,
and we don't need to have it be the first
one, okay? Somewhere there's an identity,
and each element then has a left or right
inverse, and that means that once you have
identified the identity—in this case one,
but maybe it's something else—then you
see that every row has a number one in it
and every column has a number one in it.
Okay, so this is more flexible because we are
not insisting that the actual objects be the
numbers from 1 to k. And this is in keeping with
the human-centric view on groups that really,
you know, groups come from a wide range
of different situations. Sometimes we
have groups coming from number theory like
this, in which case the numbers naturally
are not the numbers one, four—they're the
numbers 1, 3, 7, and 9. In other situations,
we are considering maybe matrices—the group
elements might be matrices. In other situations,
the group elements might be permutations.
In other situations, the group elements
might be transformations, which are
actually given geometrically. So this
framework is much more flexible in that
the actual objects that are, you know,
the basis of the algebraic object, the group, are
in fact quite arbitrary, at least in principle.
However, there's a corresponding challenge
with this approach, which is that we have
to have a prior theory of osets, all right?
So we're saying a k oset S, but we're not
saying that the objects have to come from some
specified domain—we're being open-ended about
what kinds of elements can be in our set S. And
that means that we have a problem in specifying,
limiting what kinds of objects are allowed. For
example, maybe someone comes along and looks at
our definition and says, okay, I've got a new
kind of a group. I'm going to let my S be the
set of all fish. Set of all fish—that's going to
be my set, and the multiplication is going to be,
and then I specify some rule, you know, that
the product of fish F1 and fish F2 is the fish
F3 which is nearest to the midpoint of F1 and F2
or some crazy thing. Okay, so would we allow that
kind of situation where the set S is some kind of
set which maybe we don't generally consider to be
an honest set? In other words, we have to have a
prior theory of sets in order to really make this
solid, and as we've talked about before, that's
in fact quite challenging to first lay out what
the boundaries are that separate honest sets from
make-believe sets or almost make-believe sets or
almost honest sets and so on. So although this is
more human-friendly, a computer would find this
much more challenging to deal with because, first
of all, the ambiguity in the nature of the S,
and also because there's less structure. We're not
guaranteed that the first element is the identity,
so we have to search around for an identity—we
don't know where it might be. It's a little bit
less structured, tougher for a computer
to deal with, but it's an alternative.
Okay, now here's our third definition, which is
even more flexible, so we're kind of zooming out
even more, more friendly in some fashion. So we'll
call it A3, and the definition is that now a group
G is a set S, no longer an ordered set, just a
set, together with a function, say m, from S cross
S to S, with certain properties. Okay, S cross
S—that means lists of elements of S, two lists,
so pairs of elements of S. So for example, here
is a set S: 3,1,9,7. This is now a set because
it doesn't have commas, it's not ordered, so
we can move the elements around and the set
hasn't changed. And here is the multiplication.
Okay, we don't have an array now—we're thinking
more of a function from this set of pairs to S
that represents the multiplication. And, okay,
typically set theorists like to encode functions
like this, at least formally, with some kind of
framework that's in this direction. So what we
could do is we could list all possible pairs
of elements here and the corresponding function
value of m. So let's say this little entry here is
telling us that 3 * 9 = 7. That's representing one
particular element in the array that we wrote down
before. So now we've encoded the multiplication,
not as an array but as more in sort of a function
point of view using more or less standard set
theory kind of ideas of how to encode a function.
Okay, so then of course there's the question
about the properties, the three properties,
and we would have to then say what the
three properties are that this set and
multiplication satisfy. Again, we have to
build in associativity and the existence of
an identity and the existence of inverses.
But we could use this language that's even
more flexible because now we have just a set,
and we don't necessarily have an order to the
set. And also the multiplication is now a little
bit more unstructured—we just have this function,
and we haven't necessarily organized the
function into an array. We haven't listed things;
we've just given all the information sort of
all at once in terms of this big set of lists.
Okay, so this is just another approach to what
a group is, another way of thinking about what
the definition of a group is. And now I want to
consider a variant of that. So it's going to be
a very close variant, so we're going to call it
A3 Prime instead of A4. And the actual definition
is exactly the same as A3, so a group G is a set
S together with a function m from S cross S to
S with certain properties. What's different is
that we're going to interpret this differently,
or we're going to interpret it in
a more broader, looser fashion.
So here's an example: Now I'm going to consider
the set S which is rotations of a square. Here's
a square, and I'm going to consider the set S
of rotations of a square. Now, hopefully, you
know what that means. Hopefully, you know that,
okay, we're talking about rotations of the square.
There's actually four rotations of the square.
There's the identity rotation, which doesn't do
anything; there's a rotation by a quarter turn, by
a half turn, by a 3/4 of a turn, or if you like,
a quarter turn in the opposite direction. So there
are four rotations of this square. But notice that
we haven't really specified what the rotations
are explicitly; we've just said the rotations
of a square, and sort of the onus is on you to
know what that means. And then, what about the
multiplication m? Well, here we're saying that the
multiplication m is composition. In other words,
the product of S1 and S2, or S1 and S2, or two
rotations is the composition of S1 and S2. Okay,
so you need to know what the composition
is—it means that you do one of them first
and then you do the other. Typically
here, you do S2 first and then you do S1.
Now notice that this is different from the
previous example. Here we're not saying
precisely what all the rotations
exactly are and giving them names,
and we're not saying precisely what the
product of any specific two elements is,
as we did in the previous case. Here, we're
just giving a general rule that allows you to
calculate the product of any two elements.
So in some sense, this interpretation of
the definition shifts some of the onus of
creating this group on the reader. Okay,
you are now invited to write down the elements of
this set in some notation that you can introduce,
and then you are invited to understand what this
composition amounts to in terms of those objects.
So you can see that a computer would
have more of a difficult time with this
because a computer would have to know how to
interpret this, and then a computer probably
would want to restate this descriptive kind
of definition into something more concrete,
either into an array or one of those
multiplication sets that we had in
the previous example. Of course, there's then
also the question of stating the properties,
and so we haven't done that, but you know, in
addition to saying these things, we would have to
specify what the various properties are—the usual
associative, identity, and inverse properties. So
it's interesting that this A3 and A3 Prime
definition—they both actually used exactly
the same wording, but there was a difference in
interpretation as to what that actually involved.
So the question is, is there actually an effective
or computational difference between these various
definitions? Does it really make a difference, or
are they all really more or less the same? I want
to suggest that there is a difference—there's, in
fact, a very big difference, both theoretical and
practical, between defining a group in these
various ways. In fact, I want to suggest that
group theory—okay, group theory is very strongly
dependent on which of these definitions you
choose. Group theory that starts with A1 is
going to be a different subject from group
theory that starts with A2, which is going to be a
different subject that starts with A3 or A3 Prime.
Currently, I would say that our modern definition
of a group, even though people don't spell it out
as precisely and carefully as we're trying to do
here, is more in the direction of this third A3
Prime interpretation. We are allowed to specify
groups by giving some description of the objects
and then some description of the multiplication.
We're not really obliged to list all the objects
and then to correspondingly list or, you know,
specify the multiplication in its entirety.
So that's the general understanding—maybe not
uniformly, but it's the general understanding in
the modern treatment of the subject that more or
less this is the right definition or the current
definition. But you can see that there's a
big difference, or I hope you can see that,
from a computer's point of view, this is
much more problematic, much more ambiguous.
I want to bring the differences between these
different points of view into focus for you
by looking at a specific example. So let's
have a look at U12, which is another group
of order four. So let's start by looking at
U12 from the second definition point of view,
which is maybe reasonably close to our
human perception. So U12, by definition,
consists of the numbers less than 12 which are
relatively prime to 12, and those numbers are 1,
5, 7, and 11. And there's a natural ordering to
them because they're increasing, so we may as
well list them. So here's an ordered set: 1, 5,
7, 11. And the multiplication is encoded in this
array. The array respects the order of the set
that we've introduced, and here is the product
of these numbers—this is basically multiplication
mod 12, but we don't have to say that. All the
information is already encoded in this array.
And actually, the array is just actually this
4x4 block here—these columns and the rows out here
that index things are really just for our benefit,
but the computer doesn't need it, it just
needs that 4x4 array if it knows the order
of the objects. So, for example, 5 * 5 is usually
25, but mod 12 that's 1, and so we get a 1 there.
And so, okay, so that's a very familiar
thinking of U12—that's sort of what we
would write down most naturally and simply.
But here, here is a computer version of that,
where the computer has come along and said, okay,
we're going to encode that not with the numbers 1,
5, 7, but with the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4. Because
this is a four-group, it has four elements,
and so we're automatically just going to use the
numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 to represent the objects. And
so basically, the computer comes along and says,
I'm going to call out 1, 2, 3, and 4 and just
replaces the 5 with a 2 and the 7 with a 3 and
the 11 with a 4. Okay, so there's the same table,
but having done that, the advantage now is that
the computer can encode the entire group just
with this 4x4 array. Okay, you send that 4x4 array
to another computer somewhere else in the world,
and the other computer knows exactly what
the group is—not in terms of its original
definition as U12, but in terms of the algebraic
structure that encodes the group structure.
Okay, in terms of our third definition—the third
definition involved a set, so we now lose the
ordering; we're not concerned with the ordering,
it's just now a set. So I represent that by giving
you the same four elements, but not necessarily
in the usual order. So the objects are 7, 1,
11, and 5, and then we have to record the
multiplication in a kind of function point
of view. So we have to record that 5 * 5 is 1,
so we can do that by somewhere in this list,
right there, recording the triple 5,5,1. And we
interpret that to mean that 5 * 5 is 1. So there's
now 16 elements in this set of multiplications.
This is a way of encoding this array in a kind of
set-theoretical point of view. So we have
the set, and we have the multiplication.
And now a quite different variant on that: Now
we're going to look at A3 Prime, where we describe
the set and the multiplication differently. So
we say that S is the set of numbers less than 12,
relatively prime to 12. That's a description
of the set S—it's the same set, but this is a
description of it. And the multiplication M—well,
that's multiplication mod 12. So you need to know
something about relatively prime numbers; you
need to know something about how to multiply
mod 12 to understand this definition. But if
you do, then I guess you could say that this
encodes the same kind of information as does this,
but perhaps less specifically, less concretely,
more abstractly. Clearly, this is easier to
write down, right? We can write that down very,
very easily, and if we replace the number
12 with the number, you know, 12,497,
then writing any one of these correspondingly
would involve a lot more work. But writing this
definition would be essentially almost no more
work—we would just replace this 12 with 12,497,
whatever we said. So there's some efficiency here,
but we have to admit that we're kind of putting
some of the specific difficulty in enunciating
the algebraic structure under the carpet,
or we're imposing the task to the reader instead
of doing it ourselves. We're not really giving the
group in its entirety; we're giving instructions
for the reader to be able to conjure up the
group. It's like a recipe for a cake rather than
a cake itself—it's your birthday, congratulations,
here is a recipe for a birthday cake. Okay,
thank you. That's sort of what we're doing here.
So there's quite a difference between these
various things, and you can see that if you
wanted to build up group theory as an intellectual
discipline, it would matter. It would matter very
much which of these definitions, or perhaps some
other definition, you adopted—especially if you
were a computer. Okay, if you were a computer,
you would have to have a lot of AI underneath your
bonnet to be able to make sense of this kind of
amorphous, rather wide-ranging definition, while
if you were a relatively simple-minded computer,
you could deal with this quite efficiently.
So we're naturally led to some very reasonable
questions as to the meanings of phrases that are
very commonly found in modern algebra—in fact, in
modern mathematics more generally. For example,
the statement, "Let G be a group." What does that
actually mean? Yes, it means that G is satisfying
the definition of a group, but which one of
our various definitions or interpretations of
the definition are we thinking about when we
say that phrase? In fact, there may be other
definitions that are different from the ones that
I've given or other interpretations. When we say,
"Consider a group G," what do we mean actually,
effectively, concretely? What are we imagining
when we say that phrase? When we say, "Suppose
we have a group G," again, that's a phrase,
but what is exactly the meaning of that phrase?
And to make that more concrete, we can think
about it from a computer's point of view or a
beginning student's point of view. If you're
a computer and someone says, "Consider a group
G," okay, well, what does it mean? Hopefully,
you've been given one of these definitions of a
group to begin with, and then you know precisely
what it means, especially if that definition was
the A1 definition or possibly the A2 definition,
along with some additional information. But if
it was the A3 definition, you very well may be
at sea in terms of really understanding what
that means. And I think those comments also
apply to the beginning student, even though
many beginning students in algebra don't
really appreciate that. Maybe this is part of the
difficulties that they find with the subject. So
the professor comes in and says, and gives some
rather vague or open-ended definition, says,
"Okay, now let's consider a group G. Suppose
we have a group G. Let G be a group," and the
student maybe naturally thinks, well, what
does that concretely actually mean? So once
a student has spent some years in the academy
and is used to using this language repeatedly,
they maybe get some kind of intuitive feeling and
are no longer so strongly required or confused by
it, but I think beginning students find it
difficult—what are we actually talking about
when we make statements like this? And these
statements are very common in mathematics.
Okay, so to wrap up, let me give you
a more complicated example that really
shows how important these distinctions are. If
we stick with small and medium-sized examples,
maybe the distinction between these various
points of view isn't so big; maybe we can
feel as if we can overcome the hurdles. But
if we move towards bigger examples, then the
distinctions between these various points of view
become very clear—we see it in very stark relief.
So let's ask the question: What is U
of Zed? Zed is our favorite big number,
10 triangle, 10 + 23, and we're after U of
Z. Okay, so if we take an A1 point of view,
the A1 point of view means that we need an array,
a k by k array from k. Where k is what? Where k
is the size of this thing. U of Zed is going
to be the set of numbers less than Zed which
are relatively prime to Zed. In order to find
the number of elements in that Zed, these days
you need to understand the prime factorization
of Zed. Without the prime factorization of Zed,
you have no hope of finding the number of numbers
less than Z which are relatively prime to Z—in
other words, the phi is the Euler's totient
function. Now, we have seen, right, that the
prime factorization of Z is something that's
completely beyond us here in our universe that
we're living in. There's no way we're going to be
able to write down a prime factorization of Zed,
even though due to the efforts of Joel Suen,
we understand the first eight primes. Okay,
but the next quadzillion primes, we have no idea
about yet, okay? And finding all the prime factors
is completely—it's a completely inaccessible,
hopeless problem. Therefore, finding the number of
elements in this set is also a completely hopeless
thing. And finding actually an explicit array that
has all those numbers arranged in a nice way and
the multiplication mod Zed—completely impossible,
like physically, mathematically, theoretically
impossible in our universe. So from an A1 point of
view, this is a completely undefined object. The
computer just stares blankly at you, says nothing.
How about A2? Okay, there we have a little
bit more flexibility. We don't actually
have to convert everything from whatever
we started with to the numbers 1 to k,
but we still have to exhibit the objects.
We're still not anywhere closer to this thing;
we still can't exhibit all the elements in
here. There's no way we can exhibit all the
elements. First of all, there's far too
many—most of them are numbers that are so
big they don't even fit into the universe.
Completely and hopelessly impossible. Okay,
there's no way that this makes sense. So even
a human being that has this orientation just
stares at you blindly and says, I'm sorry, but
it doesn't make any sense. It's not defined.
How about A3? In A3, we were a little bit more
loose; we were allowing our set to be actually
unordered, not like a real set. And we were still,
though, specifying that the multiplication had to
be laid out in terms of some kind of function,
explicit kind of function in a set-theoretical
point of view. Again, this is just not accessible
to us. But the A3 Prime point of view—ah, that's
quite different because there we're allowed to use
words and string phrases together. We just say,
"Consider S, the set of n in Nat such that n is
between 1 and Zed, and n and Z are relatively
prime." Voila, there is the set S that the
group is supported on. We don't need to concern
ourselves with the fact that most of the elements
in this set are completely outside our universe;
there's no way we can even list them. There's
no way we can bring all of these together.
There's no way we have any access to this in any
reasonable fashion. But nevertheless, we can write
down this phrase in a kind of Pollyanna optimistic
fashion. It's like poetry: Look, there it is—there
is the set. And what about the multiplication?
That's easy: m is just multiplication mod Zed.
You can see the advantages in having a
modern point of view on things. If you
have a modern point of view, as represented
by this A3 Prime definition, then you have
no problem dealing with U of Z because you're
allowed to think of U of Z in this amorphous,
ambiguous, poetical fashion. No problem, as
long as no one asks you about any specifics.
So as long as you're willing to ride over the
actual reality at some suitably lofty level,
where you actually never get your hands
dirty with, like, dealing with the objects,
just having this abstract point of view—well, then
you can imagine that you're doing group theory,
that you're studying U of Z, but your computer
has no idea what you're talking about.
There's a fork in the road here, isn't there,
people? All right, there's this poetical,
idealistic, modern 20th-century point of view that
allows us to just write down stuff like this. And
then there's the 21st-century, computational,
explicit, concrete point of view that says, no,
no, that doesn't make sense. I am advocating that
we think about things in a more computational,
precise, explicit, concrete form and
give up on the 20th-century abstraction,
ideology, and wishful thinking encoded
in this kind of object specification.
So the lesson is that definitions
and their interpretations do matter,
and this is going to be a very important theme
for us as we develop abstract algebra. We are
going to have to take very special care about the
nature of the definitions that we're invoking,
and we want to pin them down to
computational reality so that when
someone asks for some examples, we can give them
real examples and not fake examples like this.
This was only our first challenge, okay? So we
still have two more challenges to deal with,
namely the transition from finite
objects to infinite objects,
and we'll have to deal with the
fundamental dream of algebra. So
we'll have a little bit of things to say
about those things in our next video. I
hope you'll join me for that. I'm Norman
Wildberger. Thanks for [Music] listening.